# ADR 009: Permissioned addresses in Cronos

## Changelog
* 2022-01-04: first draft

## Context

Some messages in cronos require permissions. For example, changing the mapping to support new CRC20 auto-conversion contracts or disabling the bridge module in case of emergency. Right now, only the admin has the ability to use those messages.
 The admin is a single address defined in cronos space and can be modified through governance. It is usually a multi-sig address shared by multiple trusted parties in order to achieve a higher level of security.

While a single multi-sig admin address was originally implemented with simplicity in mind, realistically it is not practical to rely on a single address to perform all admin tasks.
As those operations could become more frequent (updating the token mapping) or needs to be triggered by external systems (circuit breaker for gravity module), it would be more practical to define a granular permission system which restricts certain operations to only some known addresses.


## Terminologies

### Admin

A special address defined in cronos space that can be modified through governance. Usually a multi-sig address.

### Permissioned addresses

An address in Cronos that is allowed to perform a type of operation (message).

### Non-permissioned addresses

An address in Cronos that carry no permissions.


### Option 1 : Create a permission system within cronos module for messages.

For the above problem, we propose the following:

- Keep the admin address in Cronos space. The admin has all the permissions and has the ability to change the permission of an address.
- By default, all addresses in Cronos are non-permissioned
- Assign to each "restricted" messages in Cronos a permission (integer value) and create in Cronos module a mapping between addresses and permissions that is stored in memory. For now, there are only two messages that require permission : MsgUpdateTokenMapping and MsgTurnBridge.
- Create a msg type "MsgUpdatePermissions" that only admin can use and allow to update the address permission mapping.
- Change the logic to always check for the permission before processing the restricted messages.

### Consequences

#### Positive

- Simple implementation self-contained in x/cronos module. Ability to be customized in the future if required.
- It is still decentralized as the admin address is managed through governance. 


#### Negative

- Require some change in the code.
- Not flexible for potential future change which may require functionalities on the group module.


### Option 2 : Use a subset of x/group module functionality to restrict some transactions in cronos

For the above problem, we propose the following:

- For each specific msg, we define a group and for the group, a group policy
- Use the admin defined in cronos space as general admin for the group
- Set the policy of the group to ``threshold: "1"`` , ``min_execution_period: 0s`` and ``voting_period: 86400s``
- The policy is associated to a group policy address, each permissioned msg within the proposal needs to be originated from the group policy address (TBD)
- To be abe to execute a permissioned msg, one member of the group needs to send the msg ``Msg/SubmitProposal``

In Cronos module, we need to restrict ``MsgUpdateTokenMapping`` and ``MsgTurnBridge`` msg to only specific "group policy address".

- Store in the state a mapping between msg and group policy address that are allowed to trigger the msg
- Only a governance proposal to be able to change the mapping
- Add code to check the sender address of the message and reject it if it does not belong to one of the address defined in the mapping

#### Positive

- Reuse of x/group module which is more flexible.

#### Negative

- Require some change in the code.
- A bit overkill if we don't see the flexibility provided by the x/group module required in long term.
- Admin of the group cannot be changed through governance.


## Decision

The work-in-progress circuit breaker module from the Cosmos-SDK team (https://github.com/cosmos/cosmos-sdk/issues/14226) could potentially resolve our issue. However, it does not have the ability to disable logics from the abci
(end blocker) which is necessary to completely bring the gravity bridge to a stop. While there was a positive feedback that something like this could be implemented in the future, the decision is to develop our own solution.

Option 1 is the solution chosen as it involves minimal changes and operations cost. It can also be removed more easily if we decide to switch to the circuit breaker module as a long term solution.

After the circuit breaker is made available, and IF it can fit in our requirements. The proposed solution could be either:
- completely remove (rollback) and be replaced by the circuit breaker
  (PR to rollback: https://github.com/crypto-org-chain/cronos/pull/795 and https://github.com/crypto-org-chain/gravity-bridge/pull/96)
- partially removed and be partially replaced by the circuit breaker (in case it cannot totally fit our requirements)
- work along with the circuit breaker (in case it does not fit our requirements)


## Status

Accepted


## References

- https://github.com/crypto-org-chain/cronos/pull/795
- https://github.com/cosmos/cosmos-sdk/tree/main/x/group#xgroup
- https://github.com/cosmos/cosmos-sdk/issues/14226