# ADR 007: Generic event formats for evm-hook actions

## Changelog

* 2022-06-09: Initial Draft
* 2022-08-03: Update proposal to generic argument option
* 2022-09-05: Move to accepted


## Context

The current evm-hooks relies on event emitted from a smart contract to trigger specific actions upon contract execution.
The current way to define those events is not flexible: events are hardcoded, parameters fixed and correspond only to one specific action.

This can lead to potential issue in the long run when commands needs to be updated to add more parameters (ibc-go/ gravity bridge) or even if we need to implement more "actions". Since contracts are immutable, contract developers won't be able to have access to these functionalities after deploying their CRC20 contracts if we perform an upgrade.

In this ADR, we define generic event argument that can be extended to accept new parameters in the future. 

## Decision

### __CronosSendToIbc Event

#### Changes

- Add new argument `string channelId` to accept destination channel Id;
- Add new argument `bytes extraData` to accept extra arguments in the future.

#### Signature

```solidity
// Current
event __CronosSendToIbc(address sender, string recipient, uint256 amount);

// Proposal
event __CronosSendToIbc(address indexed sender, uint256 indexed channelId, string recipient, uint256 amount, bytes extraData);
```

#### Description

- Event `__CronosSendToIbc` has different signature in CRC20 and CR21.
  - The chain logic will distinguish between the two formats and behave accordingly.
- Channel ID argument is added to support sending to specified IBC channel.
  - For token originated from Cronos, this channel ID could be any available IBC channel.
  - For token originated from IBC channels, the initial implementation can add a restriction to enforce the same channel as the source channel before it is ready.

### __CronosSendToEVMChain Event

#### Changes

- This is an replacement to the `__CronosSendToChain` in the current draft of CRC21 standard
- Change `chain_id` to `string` type to accept arbitrary chain ID;
- Remove `bridge_fee`.
- Add new argument `extraData bytes` to accept extra arguments in the future.

#### Signature

```solidity
// Current
event __CronosSendToChain(address sender, address recipient, uint256 amount, uint256 bridge_fee, uint256 chain_id);

// Proposal
event __CronosSendToEvmChain(address indexed sender, address indexed recipient, uint256 indexed chain_id, uint256 amount, uint256 bridge_fee, bytes extraData);
```

#### Description

- Event is renamed to make it self-descriptive on the purpose.
- Chain ID argument is changed from unsigned integer to string. This allow sending token to destination chains other than Ethereum (Gravity Bridge).
  - The Chain ID naming standard is expected to be defined on another ADR.
- Bridge Fee argument is removed because its format is not well defined. It should be encoded in the newly-introduced `extraData` argument when ready.

### Bridge Destination Restriction

- The new event formats add support to arbitrary destination chains according to the capability of the chain.
- It is up to the contract to define restriction on the destination, if needed.

### Extra Arguments Guidelines

This is a guideline to future bridge features on leveraging the `bytes extraData` argument:

1. The first 2 bytes are reserved as a version number, to help the chain logic to recognize the format of elements in `extraData` array.
2. It is up to the future implementer to define the `extraData` argument serialization.

### Smart Contract Developer Guidelines

1. Be aware that the `extraData` argument serialization may be changed across versions. This could mean a contract has to be designed as upgradable for future argument format updates.

### Other Events

For other bridge events, we recommend to add the `bytes extraData` to them as well.

Possible events affected (as of writing):
- `__CronosSendToAccount`
- `__CronosSendToChainResponse`
- `__CronosCancelSendToChain`
- `__CronosSendCroToIbc`
 
## Status

Proposed

## Consequences

### Positive

- Add extensibility to contract for future bridge features without introducing new token standard;
- Possibility to remove or add parameters to existing actions (if we upgrade ibc-go or gravity module for example);
- Reduce number of upgrade or migrations requirement to existing token contracts.

### Negative

- Might have some security concerns if those arguments are not correctly "bounded" by a defined scope (smart contract can only move its own asset, action can only be performed from sender account);
- Extra data defined in byte array will make the contract less readable.
- Manipulation of argument inside a dynamic-sized byte array (bytes) is not trivial;
- Extra complexity for smart contract to restrict future bridge features because the future argument formats will not be known at deploy time.

## References

* https://github.com/crypto-org-chain/cronos/issues/546
* https://github.com/crypto-org-chain/cronos/pull/545
* https://github.com/crypto-org-chain/cronos/pull/544
* https://docs.soliditylang.org/en/v0.6.8/types.html