# ADR 008: Denom and Contract Mapping Enhancement for Bi-Directional Token Conversion

## Changelog
* 2022-06-15: first draft

## Context

Right now Cronos module supports native token to CRC20 token conversion only. As more dApp projects deploy their tokens on Cronos EVM, there is a need to support converting EVM tokens deployed on Cronos EVM to native token for use cases such as bridging to Cosmos Chains by IBC or to Ethereum by Gravity Bridge.

This proposal aims to refine the existing denom and smart contract address mapping design and define the interface of EVM Token to native token conversion. This ADR will also enable tokens to transfer freely between different bridges based on token mappings have only single token source. Applications should design the post-processing mechanisms upon receiving the bridge request. 

## Terminologies

### EVM Token

EVM Tokens are tokens that adopt the widely used CRC20/CRC21 token standard. These token are smart contracts deployed on Cronos EVM.

### Local EVM Token

Local EVM Tokens are EVM tokens that are originated from Cronos EVM, that means the minting of the tokens happen on Cronos.

### Native Token

Native Tokens are tokens on the Cosmos layer of Cronos. They are not directly usable on Cronos EVM but an intermediate token format between bridge protocols and Cronos EVM because most bridge protocols are Cosmos module that interacts with native tokens.

## Decision

### 1. Denom and Contract Mapping Key-Value

#### A. Current Design

Currently, the native token denom to contract address is registered in the Cronos module kvstore and stored as key-value pairs: 
```
key -> value
{prefixDenomToExternalContract}{denom} -> {contractAddress}
{prefixContractToDenom}{contractAddress} -> {denom}
```
where `prefixDenomToExternalContract` and `prefixContractToDenom` are constant integers to identify the types of keys in the key value store. They are `1` and `3` respectively.

For example, IBC-ATOM to contract on Cronos mainnet mapping is
```
1ibc/C4CFF46FD6DE35CA4CF4CE031E643C8FDC9BA4B99AE598E9B0ED98FE3A2319F9 -> 0xB888d8Dd1733d72681b30c00ee76BDE93ae7aa93"
```
Note that the keys and values are stored as slice of bytes in real life. The above example is for illustration purpose.

#### B. Proposal
In this ADR, we define an enhanced token mapping key-value pairs as follows:

```
key -> value
{prefixDenomToExternalContract}{denom} -> {sourceKey};{contract_address}
{prefixContractToDenom}{contract_address} -> {sourceKey};{denom}
```
where `{sourceKey}` is a list of token sources denoted by integer constants:
```go
const (
    sourceKeyCronos = iota + 1  // 1
    sourceKeyIBC                // 2
    sourceKeyGravityBridge      // 3
)
```

#### C. Design Explain

##### i. 1-to-1 Mapping of Native Token Denom and Smart Contract Address

The key design remains unchanged. The current key design allows quick lookup of native token denom or smart contract address to their corresponding mapping and this benefit is kept. Moreover, we want to maintain 1-to-1 mapping of native token denom <=> smart contract address to avoid complicated supply management such as supply insolvency handling across channels.

##### ii. Importance of Denoting Token Source

The primary change is the addition of token source in the value. This will allow applications to be able to respond differently based on the source of tokens. This is important when we support multiple sources of tokens.

For example, upon receiving a smart contract request to transfer an EVM token to a Cosmos-based Chain through IBC. The EVM hook can decide, before initiating the IBC transfer, to 
1. If the EVM token is local EVM Token,
    - Mint the native token representing the smart contract and transfer to the user; OR
2. If the EVM token is originated from an IBC channel,
    - Transfer the IBC-token from the smart contract module account to the user address.

#### D. Upgrade of Existing Key Value Pairs

Existing key-value pairs are to be migrated to the new format upon chain upgrade when this ADR is enabled.

If IBC bridge is the only bridge enabled at the time this ADR is enabled, the upgrade will be as simple as prepending the source key of IBC to all values.

Otherwise, more complicated upgrade mechanism has to be decided to cater for different bridge protocols supported at that time.

### 2. Mapping Registration

In this ADR, we do not intend to change the mapping registration process. Following the current design, the address specified in the network parameter `CronosAdmin` has the rights to update the mappings.

### 3. Support EVM Token from/to Native Token Conversion

#### A. CRC20/CRC21 Smart Contract Standards

We want to leverage the existing CRC20/CRC21 token smart contract standards. Ideally no new method is introduced to support local EVM token to native token conversion.

We can re-use bridge methods such as `send_to_ethereum(address recipient, uint amount, uint bridge_fee)` and `send_to_ibc(string memory recipient, uint amount)` methods to bridge tokens to different chains. If [ADR 007: Generic event formats for evm-hook actions](./adr-007.md) is accepted, this ADR is compatible as well.

#### B. EVM Hooks

EVM hooks for bridge applications are to be updated accordingly. Upon receiving the emitted bridge events, the EVM hook should:
1. Unpack and validate the EVM events;
2. Call `keeper.GetDenomByContract()` to validate and get the token source and native token denom of the EVM token smart contract address;
3. (Optional) Validate if the native token denom is supported by the bridge^1;
4. If the token is local EVM token, mint the corresponding native token and send to the user Cosmos address; Otherwise, send the native token from the contract address module account to the user Cosmos address;
5. Interact with the bridge module and send the token to external chains;
6. Emit Cosmos events as needed.

^1 It is up to the design of each EVM hook to validate and restrict which the native denom can be bridged with the protocol. They can decide not to put any restriction to allow tokens transferring freely between differnt chains.

#### C. Bridge Hooks

Bridge hooks are to be updated according. Upon receiving bridge transfer in, the Bridge hook should, generally speaking, perform the followings:
1. Unpack and validate bridge parameters from the transaction or event;
2. If the token source is Cronos EVM, invoke `keeper.BurnVouchersToEvmCoins()`; Otherwise, invoke `keeper.ConvertVouchersToEvmCoins()`^2;
3. Emit Cosmos events as needed.

^2 BurnVouchersToEvmCoins will burn the native token, mint the local EVM tokens and send the token to the user EVM address. More details of the new keeper methods will be explained below.

#### D. Native Denom Naming

The denom naming of the native token with Cronos EVM as source is
```
evm0x{smartContractAddress}
```

The chain must avoid naming any native asset with the prefix `evm0x` in the future.

### 4. Keeper Methods Changes

### Method Updates

#### GetDenomByContract

```go
GetDenomByContract(ctx sdk.Context, contract common.Address)
    (source int, denom string, found bool)
```

`source` is added in the returned value to denote the source of the denom to smart contract address mapping

##### GetDenomByContract

```go
GetContractByDenom(ctx sdk.Context, denom string)
    (source int, contract common.Address, found bool)
```

`source` is added in the returned value to denote the source of the denom to smart contract address mapping

##### ConvertCoinFromNativeToCRC20

In the current design, the method permits only the denom is one of the IBC and Gravity Bridge denoms before doing any conversion. In this ADR, we want to loosen this validation check. If such a requirement exists, it should be performed in the IBC hooks.

### New Method

##### BurnVouchersToEvmCoins

```go
BurnVouchersToEvmCoins(ctx sdk.Context, receiver string, coins sdk.Coins) error
```

This method works for local EVM tokens. It burns the previously-minted native token from the `receiver` address. This method will then invoke the smart contract to mint the EVM tokens to the EVM address of the `receiver`.

The working mechanism is as follows:
1. Call `keeper.GetContractByDenom()` to validate and get the token source and smart contract address of the provided native token denom;
2. Burn the voucher native token from the `receiver` Cosmos address;
3. Invoke the corresponding smart contract `mint_by_cronos_module` method to mint the EVM token to `receiver` EVM address.

## Status

Proposed

## Consequences

### Positive

- Support local EVM token to native token conversion.
- No new key value pairs added and storage increment kept at minimum.
- Compatible with existing CRC20/CRC21 contract standards.

### Negative

- No flexible control of token conversion. For example, we cannot restrict certain token cannot be bridged over particular protocol. It relies on the bridge module to manage the restriction list.
- Potentially complicated chain upgrade logic.

### Neutral

- Multi-sourced token is not supported. This is a deliberate design decision to avoid complicated supply management logic.

## References
