# ADR 006: Migrating CRC20 contract to CRC21 standard

## Changelog
* 2022-06-08: first draft
* 2022-06-15: updated status

## Context

The CRC20 standard specifies a function `send_to_ethereum` that was added, at that time, in prevision of the gravity bridge support.
However due to a change of design, the event format emitted by this function requires some changes (additional parameters need to be specified such as msg.sender and chain_id).

In the effort to not change the CRC20 standard, we have defined a new CRC21 standard that specify two events (`__CronosSendToChain` and `__CronosCancelSendToChain`) allowing cross-chain transfer of CRC20 through the gravity bridge. (https://github.com/crypto-org-chain/cronos/blob/main/contracts/src/ModuleCRC21.sol)

However numerous Dapps have deployed their own tokens following CRC20 standard and need to migrate if they want to be able to bridge with Ethereum or other evm-compatible chain. 



## Decision

For the above problem, we propose the following:

- A bytecode replacement of all CRC20 contract deployed to the CRC21 contract bytecode. In that case we can directly merge CRC21 and CRC20 to a single standard.
  
Alternately, another possibility is to do nothing on the chain-side. Dapps developers are able to use a contract wrapper to expose CRC21 functionalities to their CRC20 tokens. We can create some templates to help them on their migrations.

## Status

Rejected

## Consequences

### Positive 

- Dapps developers won't have to do anything (Reduce efforts on the Dapps side to support bridging functionality)
- CRC20 and CRC21 merged to a single standard is more clean in the long term.
- Avoid relying on a wrapped version of the CRC20 contract which can create some confusions for the DEX.

### Negative 

- Requires engineering effort and network upgrade to replace contract bytecode
- Some contract does not follow exactly the CRC20 standard and won't be able to be migrated automatically
- Integrity of the smart contract immutability being violated?





## References

* https://github.com/crypto-org-chain/cronos/issues/547
* https://github.com/crypto-org-chain/cronos/pull/544
* https://github.com/crypto-org-chain/cronos/blob/main/contracts/src/ModuleCRC21.sol