# ADR 001: Disable Gravity Bridge at Genesis

## Changelog
* 12-10-2021: Initial Draft
* 13-10-2021: Code deletion instead of conditional compilation
* 16-11-2021: Experimental activation flag
* 02-02-2023: Removal of experimental activation flag

## Context

The Gravity Bridge module was added for fungible asset transfers from and to the Ethereum network.
Additionally, custom code was added for directly mapping the native tokens from Gravity Bridge
to the Ethermint module. At the time of writing, Gravity Bridge does not have a stable release
and the codebase contains several known issues.

## Decision

** Removal

The Gravity Bridge module will be removed from:
1. "app/app.go" which contains the module initialization boilerplate
2. "cmd/cronosd/cmd/root.go" which adds Gravity Bridge-related commands.

In addition to that, the "x/cronos" module contains Gravity Bridge-related code in its types and keeper. This following code will be removed:
1. the whole x/cronos/keeper/gravity_hooks.go module
2. the gravityKeeper field in CronosKeeper

Existing integration tests related to Gravity Bridge can be temporarily disabled and later enabled when Gravity Bridge is added back.

** Restoration 

In order to mitigate risks and avoid heavy maintenance cost, we took the decision to add an activation flag when reintroducing back the Gravity Bridge.

The reason is that the timeline of releasing Gravity Bridge is still unclear and major breaking changes might need to be release in mainnet before we enable it definitely. This solution avoid us to maintain forks of the repository.

To run the node with `x/gravity` enable in the app, the runtime flag `unsafe-experimental` needs to be set to true with the `start` command.

Once we decide that the Gravity Bridge code is mature enough to be deployed in mainnet, the x/cronos module `ConsensusVersion` should be increased and the corresponding upgrade handler should be added. At that time, we could also remove the flag.

** Flag removal

The unsafe-experimental flag will be removed from the code base as the module is stable enough to be added to cronos. Moreover, the logic of the gravity module can be controlled through the governance parameter "bridge_active" which still leave us the option to disable it if necessary.


## Status

Accepted

## Consequences

### Positive
* Reduced complexity in the initial Cronos state
* Reduced complexity in the initial infrastructure deployment 
* Possible to add the Gravity Bridge module in a coordinated upgrade when the module gets a stable release

### Negative
* Not testing Gravity Bridge temporarily

### Neutral
* A need for a breaking change upgrade

## References

* https://github.com/althea-net/cosmos-gravity-bridge/issues/348
* https://github.com/althea-net/cosmos-gravity-bridge/issues/347
* https://github.com/althea-net/cosmos-gravity-bridge/issues/346
* https://github.com/althea-net/cosmos-gravity-bridge/issues/344
* in-place store migrations: https://github.com/cosmos/cosmos-sdk/blob/main/docs/architecture/adr-041-in-place-store-migrations.md